# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Resource types

* [`python_venv`](#python_venv): Manages Python virtual environments with dependency installation.  This type creates a Python virtual environment and installs specified depe

## Resource types

### <a name="python_venv"></a>`python_venv`

Manages Python virtual environments with dependency installation.

This type creates a Python virtual environment and installs specified
dependencies atomically. It supports both requirements.txt files and
individual package specifications.

#### Examples

##### Basic usage

```puppet
python_venv { '/opt/myapp/venv':
  ensure             => present,
  python_executable  => '/usr/bin/python3',
  system_site_packages => true,
  requirements       => ['requests==2.28.1', 'flask==2.2.2'],
}
```

##### With requirements.txt

```puppet
python_venv { '/opt/myapp/venv':
  ensure             => present,
  requirements_files => ['/opt/myapp/requirements.txt'],
  requirements       => ['additional-package==1.0.0'],
}
```

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `python_venv` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

##### `requirements_state`

Internal property to track requirements synchronization state. DO NOT SET MANUALLY.

Default value: `insync`

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `python_venv` type.

* [`path`](#-python_venv--path)
* [`pip_args`](#-python_venv--pip_args)
* [`provider`](#-python_venv--provider)
* [`python_executable`](#-python_venv--python_executable)
* [`requirements`](#-python_venv--requirements)
* [`requirements_files`](#-python_venv--requirements_files)
* [`system_site_packages`](#-python_venv--system_site_packages)

##### <a name="-python_venv--path"></a>`path`

The path where the virtual environment should be created.

##### <a name="-python_venv--pip_args"></a>`pip_args`

Additional arguments to pass to pip install commands.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-python_venv--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `python_venv` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will
usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="-python_venv--python_executable"></a>`python_executable`

The Python executable to use for creating the virtual environment.

Default value: `python3`

##### <a name="-python_venv--requirements"></a>`requirements`

Array of package specifications to install (e.g., ["requests==2.28.1", "flask"]).

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-python_venv--requirements_files"></a>`requirements_files`

Array of paths to requirements.txt files to install.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-python_venv--system_site_packages"></a>`system_site_packages`

Valid values: `true`, `false`, `true`, `false`

Whether to give the virtual environment access to system site packages.

Default value: `false`
